Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today and I are here with Andrew Ing.
Andrew is one of the godfathers of the
AI revolution. He was the co-founder of
Google Brain, Corsera, and the venture
studio AI fund. More recently, he coined
the term agentic AI and joined the board
of Amazon. Also, he was one of the very
first people a decade ago to convince me
that deep learning was the future.
Welcome, Andrew. Andrea, thank you so
much for being with us.
>> No, always great to see you.
>> I'm not sure where we should begin
because you have such a broad view of
these topics, but I feel like we should
start with the biggest question, which
is um you know, if you look forward at
capability growth from here, uh where
does it come from? Does it come from
more scale? Does it come from data work?
>> Multiple vectors of progress. So, I
think um there is probably a little bit
more juice out of the scalability lemon
to be squeezed. So, hopefully we
continue to make progress there, but
it's getting really really difficult. um
society's perception of AI has been very
skewed by the PR machinery of a handful
of companies with amazing PR
capabilities and because that number of
companies drove scale the narrative
people think of scale first of a vector
progress but I think you know agentic
workflows um the way we built multimodal
models we did a lot of work to build
concrete applications I there are
multiple vectors of progress as well as
wild cards like brand new technologies
like can diffusion models which are used
to generate images for the most part
will that also work for gener ing text.
I think that's exciting. So I think
there'll be multiple ways for AI to make
progress.
>> You actually came up with the term
agentic AI, what did you mean then?
>> So when I uh decided to start talk about
agentic AI, which wasn't a thing when I
started to use the term, my team was
slightly annoyed at me. One of my team
members that won't name, he said,
Andrew, the world does not need you to
make up another term. But I decided to
do it anyway. And for whatever reason,
it stuck. And the reason I started to
talk about agentic AI was because um uh
like couple years ago I saw people were
will spend a lot of time debating is
this an agent is this not an agent what
is an agent and I felt there's a lot of
good work and there was a spectrum of
degrees of agency where there are high
autonomous agents that could plan take
multiple sets of reasoning do a lot of
stuff by themselves and then things that
were lower degrees of agency where would
prompt an alarming output and and I felt
like rather than debating is this agent
or not let's just um say the degrees of
agency and say it's all agentic. So you
spend our time actually building this.
So I started to push the term agentic
AI. What I did not expect was that uh
several months later a bunch of
marketers would get a hold of this term
and use as a sticker to stick it on
everything in sight. And so I think the
term agentic AI really took off. I feel
like the marketing hype has gone like
that insanely fast. But the real
business progress has also been you know
rapidly growing but maybe not as fast as
the marketing. What do you think are the
biggest obstacles right now to true
agents actually being implemented as AI
applications? Because to your point, I
think we've been talking about it for a
little while now. There are certain
things that were missing initially that
are now in place in terms of everything
from certain forms of inference time
compute on through to forms of memory
and other things that allow you to
maintain some sort of state against what
you're doing. What do you view the
things that are still missing or need to
get built or will sort of ferment
progress on that end?
>> I think at the technology component
level there's stuff that I hope will
improve. For example, computer use, you
know, kind of works often doesn't work.
Um I think so the guard rails eval is a
huge problem. How do we quickly evaluate
these things and drive eval so I think
the component is there's room for
improvement but what I see is the single
biggest barrier to getting more uh
agentic AI workflows implemented is is
actually talent. Uh so when I look at
the way many teams built agents the
single biggest differentiator that I see
in the market is does the team know how
to drive a systematic error analysis
process with eval. So you're building
the agents by analyzing at any moment in
time what's working what's not working
what do you improve as opposed to uh
less experienced teams kind of try
things in a more random way that just
takes a long time and we're looking
across a huge range of businesses small
and large it feels like there's so much
work that can be automated through
agentic workflows but you know the
talent the skills and maybe the software
tooling I don't know just isn't there to
drive that discipline engineering
process to get this stuff built
>> how much of that engineering process
could you imagine being automated with
AI.
>> You know, it turns out that a lot of
this process of building agent
workflows, it requires ingesting
external knowledge which is often locked
up in the heads of people. So, until and
unless we build, you know, AI avatars
can interview employees doing the work
and better visual AI that can look at
the computer monitor. I think maybe
eventually you know but I think at least
right now for the next year or two I
think there's a lot of work for human
engineers to do um to build more Asian
workflows. that's more the kind of uh
collection of data, feedback, etc. for
certain loops that people are doing. Is
that other other things that I'm sort of
curious like what that translates into
tangibly versus
>> Yeah. So, one example. So, I see a lot
of workflows like um you know maybe a
customer emails your document. You got
to convert the document to text and
maybe do a web search for some
compliance reason to see you're working
with vendor you're not supposed to and
then look up a database record see the
pricing right save it somewhere else and
so on. multi-state region workflows kind
of nextgen robotic process automation.
So you implement this and it doesn't
work you know is it a problem if you got
the invoice date wrong is that a problem
or not or if you routed a message to the
wrong person for verification. So when
all of when you implement these things
you know almost always it doesn't work
the first time but then to know what's
important for your business process and
is it okay that I don't know I bothered
the CEO of the company too many times or
is the se doesn't mind verifying some
invoices. So all that external
contextual knowledge um often at least
right now I see thoughtful human product
managers or human engineers having to
just think through this and make these
decisions. So can a agent do that
someday? I don't know. Seems pretty
difficult right now. Maybe someday
>> but it's not in the internet
pre-training data set and it's not in a
manual that we can automatically
extract.
>> I feel like for a lot of work to be done
building a workflows that data set is
proprietary. It's just non it's not
general knowledge on the internet. So
figuring that out is still still
exciting work to do.
>> What is the um if you just look at it
the spectrum of agentic AI what's the
strongest example of agency you've seen?
>> I feel like bleeding edge of agentic AI
I've been really impressed by some of
the AI coding agents. Um so I think in
terms of economic value I feel like
there two very clear and very apparent
buckets. One is answering people's
questions. uh pray you know OpenAI chat
GP seems to market leader to that with
real grow takeoff liftoff velocity. The
second massive bucket of economic value
is coding agents where coding agents
like my my my personal favorite cloud
develop to right now is cloud code.
Maybe it will change at some point but I
I I I just use it love it uh highly
autonomous in terms of planning out you
know what to do to build the software
building a checklist going through it
one at a time. So disability is a plan a
multi-step thing. Execute the multiple
steps of a plan. Uh is one of the most
highly autonomizations out there being
used that that actually works. Uh
there's other stuff that I think doesn't
work like some of the computer use stuff
like you know go shop for something for
me and browse online. Those some of
those things are really nice demos but
but not yet production. Do you think
that's because of looser criteria in
terms of what needs to be done and more
variability around actions or do you
think there's a a better training set or
sort of set of outputs for coding? I'm
sort of curious like why does one work
so well or almost feels magical at times
and others are you know really
struggling as use cases so far.
>> I think you know engineers really good
at getting all sorts of stuff to work
>> but um uh the economic value of coding
is just clear and apparent and massive.
So I think the sheer amount of resources
dedicated to this has led a lot of smart
people for whom they themselves are the
user. So also good instinct on product
building really amazing coding agents.
Uh and then I think I don't know
>> you don't think it's a fundamental
research challenge. You think it's like
capitalism at work and then domain
knowledge in a lab.
>> Oh I think capitalism is great at
solving fundamental research problems.
>> Yeah.
At what point do you think um models
will effectively be bootstrapping
themselves in terms of you know 99% of
the code of a model will be written by
agentic coding agents
>> or the error analysis.
>> So I I I feel like we're I I I certainly
suspect we're slowly getting there. So
some of the leading foundation model
companies are clearly well they've said
publicly they're using AI to write a lot
of the codes. Um maybe one thing I find
exciting is uh AI models using agentic
workflows to generate data for the next
generation of models. So I think I think
the llama research paper talked about
this but older version of llama would be
used to think for a long time to
generate puzzles that then you train the
next generation of the model to try to
solve really quickly without need to
think as long. So I find that exciting
too. Um yeah multiple vectors of
progress. It feels like feels like you
know AI is not just one way to make
progress. There's so many smart people
pushing forward in in in so many
different ways.
>> I think you have rejected the term vibe
coding in favor of AI assisted coding.
Like what's the difference?
>> You know, um I I I
>> assuming you do the latter. You're not
vibing.
>> Yeah. Vibe coding leads people to think,
you know, like I'm just going to go to
Vibes and accept all the changes that
cursor suggests or whatever. And it's
fine that sometimes you could do that
and it works, but I wish it was that
easy. So when I'm coding for a day or
for an afternoon, I'm not like going
with the vibes. It's like a deeply
intellectual exercise. And I think the
term vibe coding makes people think it's
easier than it is. So frankly, after a
day of using AI assisted coding, like
I'm exhausted mentally, right? So I
think of it as rapid engineering where
AI is letting us build serious systems,
build products much faster than ever
before. But it is, you know, engineering
just done really rapidly.
>> Do you think that's changing the nature
of startups? How many people you need?
how you build things, how you approach
things, or do you think it's still the
same old kind of approach, but you just
have people that get more leverage
because they have these tools now?
>> So, you know, AI found we built startups
and it's really exciting to see how uh
rapid engineering AI assisted coding um
is changing the way we build startups.
So, there's so many things that you know
would have taken a team of six engineers
like three months to build that now
today one of my friends and I we're just
building on a weekend. And the
fascinating thing I'm seeing is um if we
think about building a startup the the
core loop of what we do right I want to
build a product that users love. So the
core iteration loop is write software
you know that software engineing work
and then the product managers maybe go
do user testing look at it go by got
whatever to decide how to improve the
product. So we go look at this loop the
speed of coding is accelerating the cost
is falling and so increasingly the
bottleneck is actually product
management. Uh so so the product
management bottleneck is now you can
build what do we want much faster well
the bottleneck is deciding what do we
actually want to build and previously if
it took you say three weeks to build a
prototype if you need a week to get user
feedback it's fine but if you now build
a prototype in a day then boy if you
have to wait a week for user feedback
that's really painful so I find my teams
um frankly increasingly relying on gut
because um we go and collect a lot of
data that informs our very human mental
model, our brain's mental model of what
the user wants and then we often, you
know, have to have deep customer empathy
can just make product decisions like
that, right? Really, really fast in
order to drive progress. Have you seen
anything that actually automates some
aspects of that? I know that there have
been um some versions of things where
people for example are trying to
generate market research by having a
series of bots kind of react in real
time and that that almost forms your
market or your user base as a simulated
environment of users. Have you seen any
tool like that work or take off or do
you think that's coming or do you think
that's too hard to do?
>> Yeah, so there's been a bunch of tools
to try to speed up product management.
Um I feel like uh well the the recent
Figma IPO is one you know great example
of design AI Heidi and you know Dylan
did a great job. Um then there are these
tools that uh are trying to use AI to
help interview prospective users and as
you say we looked at some of the
scientific papers on using a flock of AI
agents to simulate your a group of users
and how to calibrate that. It all feels
promising and early and hopefully wildly
exciting in the future. I don't think
those tools are accelerating product
managers nearly as much as coding tools
are accelerating software engineers. So
this does create more of the bottleneck
on the product management side. It does
make sense to me that my partner Mike
has this idea that I think is broadly
applicable in a different a couple
different ways of like computers can now
interrogate humans at scale. Um and so
there's companies like Lucen Labs
working on this for like consumer
research type tasks, right? But you
could also use it to you know understand
tasks for training or for um you know
the data collection piece that you
described. When you think about your
teams that are in this iteration loop,
has like the founder profile that makes
sense changed over time? To me, there
are so many things that the world used
to do in 2022 that just do not work in
2025. So, in fact, often I I I I ask
myself, is there anything we're doing
that today that we're also doing in
2022? And if so, let's take a look and
see if it still even makes sense today
because a lot of stuff, a lot of
workflows in 2020 don't make sense
today. So, I think today um the
technology is moving so fast. founders
that are on top of geni technology thus
you know uh tech oriented product
leaders I think are much more likely to
succeed than someone that maybe is more
businessoriented more business savvy but
is not doesn't have a good feel for
where AI is going. I think unless you
have a good feel for what this
technology cannot do it's really
difficult to think about strategy and
whether where to lead the company
>> we believe this too.
>> Yeah. Cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think
that's like old school Silicon Valley
even like if you if you look at uh Gates
or Steve Jobs Waznjak or a lot of the
really early pioneers of the
semiconductor computer um early internet
era they were all highly technical.
Yeah.
>> And so I almost feel like we kind of
lost that for a little bit of time and
now it's it's very clear that you need
technical leaders for technology
companies. I think we used to think oh
you know they've had one exit before so
or two exits even so let's just back
that founder again. But I think if that
founder has stayed on top of AI then
that's fantastic but if you know and I
think part of it is um in moments of
technological disruption which AI
rapidly changing that's the rare
knowledge. So, so actually take take
mobile technology, you know, like
everyone kind of knows what a mobile
phone can and cannot do, right? What a
mobile app is is GPS, all that. Everyone
kind of knows that. So, you don't need
to be very technical to have a gut for
can I build a mobile app for that. But
AI is changing so rapidly. What can you
do with voice act, what workflows do,
how rapidly foundation models, what was
the reasoning model. So, having that
knowledge is a much bigger
differentiator. Whereas, you know,
knowing what a mobile app can do to
build a mobile game, right? It's an
interesting point because when I look at
the biggest mobile apps, they were all
started by engineers. So WhatsApp was
started by an engineer. Instagram was
started by an engineer. I think Travis
at Uber was was technicalish
>> technically adjacent.
>> Technical adjacent um Instacart was an
engineer at Amazon.
>> Yeah. And Travis had the insight that
GPS enabled a new thing, but so you had
to be one of the people that saw GPS or
mobile coming early to go and do that.
>> Yeah. You have to be like really aware
of the capabilities.
>> Yeah. You have to know the technology.
Yeah. It's super interesting. What what
other characteristics do you think are
are common? I I know um people have been
talking about for example uh it almost
felt like there's an era where being
hardworking was kind of poo pooed or do
you think founders have to work hard? Do
you think people who succeed were I'm
just sort of curious like aggression
uh hours work like what else may
correlate or not correlate in your mind?
You know I work very hard. There periods
in my life where you know I I encourage
others that want to have a great career
of an impact like work hard. But I even
now I feel like a little bit of nervous
is saying that because in some parts of
society it's considered not politically
correct to say well working hard
probably correlates to personal success.
Um I think it's just a reality. I I know
that not everyone at every point in
their life is in a time where they work
hard. You know when when my kids were
first born that week I did not work very
hard. it was fine, right? So,
acknowledging that not everyone is in
circumstances and work hard.
>> Just the factual reality is people that
work hard accomplish a lot more. Um, but
of course you need to respect people
that aren't in a phase where they
>> Yeah, I'd say something maybe a little
less correct which is I uh less
politically correct which is like I
think there was an era where people
thought like there was a there's a
statement that startups are for everyone
and like I do not believe that's true.
Right. I think like you know you're
trying to do a very unreasonable thing
which is like create a lot of value
impacting people very quickly and when
you're trying to do an unreasonable
thing you probably have to work pretty
hard right and so I think people I think
that got very the sort of work ethic
required to like move the needle in the
world very quickly disappeared. Yeah,
there was a there was a was a quote I I
wish I remember who said this, but uh
was it the only people that would change
the world are the ones crazy enough to
think they can. I think it does take
someone with the bonus, the decisiveness
to go and say, you know what, just say
the world, I'm going to take a shot at
changing it and and and it's only uh
people with that um conviction uh uh
that I think can do this.
>> Strikes me as being true in any
endeavor. You know, I used to work as a
biologist and I think it's true in
biology. I think it's true in
technology. I think it's true in um
almost every field that I've seen is
it's the people who work really hard do
very well and then in startups at least
the thing I tended to forget for a while
was just how important competitiveness
or people who really wanted to compete
and win mattered and sometimes people
come across as really low-key but they
still have that drive and that urge and
they they they want to be the ones who
are the winners and so I think that
matters and similarly that was kind of
put aside for a little bit at least uh
from a societal perspective relative to
companies
>> actually I've seen I feel like I've seen
two types. One is they really want their
business to win. That's fine. Some do
great. somewhat they really want their
customers to win and they're so obsessed
with serving the customer that that
worked out. Uh I used to say early days
of course era you know yes I knew about
competition blah blah blah but I was
really obsessed with you know learners
with the customers and that drove a lot
of my behavior instead.
>> No that that's a really good framework
and when I say competition I don't mean
necessarily with other companies but
it's almost like with whatever metric
you set for yourself or whatever thing
you want to win at or be the best at.
One thing I found is in a startup
environment, you just got to make so
many decisions every day. Um, you just
have to go by gut a lot of the time,
right? I I I feel like, you know,
building a startup feels more like
playing tennis than solving calculus
problems. Like, you just don't have time
to think, you just make a decision. And
I feel like um so this is why people
that obsess day and night with the
customer with the company think really
deeply and have that conceptual
knowledge that when when someone says do
I ship product feature A or feature B
like you just got to know a lot of the
time not always and and it turns out
there are so many um to use Jeff Bas's
term like two-way doors in startups
because frankly you know you have you
have very little to lose so just make a
decision if it's wrong change it a week
later it's fine. So I find but but to be
really decisive and move really fast you
need to obsess usually about the
customer maybe the technology to have
that state of knowledge to make really
rapid decisions and still be right most
of the time.
>> How do you think about that bottleneck
in terms of product management that you
mentioned or people who have good
product instincts because I was talking
to uh one of the best known sort of tech
public company CEOs and his view was
that in all of Silicon Valley or in all
of tech kind of globally there's
probably a few hundred at most great
product people. Do you think that's true
or do you think there's a broader swath
of people who are very capable at it and
then how do you find those people
because I think that's actually a very
rare skill set in terms of the people
who are you know just like there's a 10x
engineer there's 10x product insights it
feels
>> boy that's a great question I I I feel
it's got to be more than a few hundred
great product people maybe just as I
think there are way more than a few
hundred great AI people I think there
are but but I think one thing I find is
very difficult is um that user empathy
or that customer empathy because you
know to form model of the user or the
customer. There's so many sources of
data. You know, you run surveys, you
talk to a handful of people, you market
reports, uh you look at people's
behavior on other parallel or computing
apps or whatever, but there's so many
sources of data, but to take all this
data and then to you get out of your own
head to form a mental model for what
your right maybe ideal customer profile
or some some user you want to serve uh
would think and act so you can very
quickly make decisions, serve them
better. that human empathy. One of my
failures, one one of the things I did
not do well in the early phase of my
career um for for some dumb reason, I
tried to make a bunch of engineers
product managers. I gave them product
manager training and I found that I just
foolishly made a bunch of really good
engineers feel bad for not being good
product managers, right? But but but I
found that one coralate for whether
someone you know would have good product
instincts is that very high human
empathy where you can synthesize lots of
signals to really put yourself in the
other person's shoes to then very
rapidly make product decisions and how
to serve them. you know, going back to
um coding assistants. It's really
interest. I think it is like reasonably
well known that the um cursor team like
they make their decisions actually very
uh instinctively uh versus spending a
lot of time talking to users and I think
that makes sense if you are the user and
then like your mental model of like
yourself and what you want is actually
applicable to a lot of people. And
similarly like I I think uh you know
these things change all the time but uh
I don't think cloud code incorporates
despite you know scale of usage feedback
data today um from like a training loop
perspective and I think that surprises
people because it is really just like
what do we think the product should be
at this stage. So it turns out one
advantage that startups have is um uh
while you're early you can serve kind of
one user profile. uh today you know if
if you're I don't know like Google right
Google serves such a diverse set of user
personas you really have to think about
a lot of different user personas and
that adds complexity to the product
changes but when you're a startup trying
to get your initial wage in the market
you know if you pick even one human uh
that is representative enough of a broad
set of users and you just build a
product for one user that you have or
one ideal customer profile one you know
hypothetical person then you should
actually go quite far and I think that
uh for some of these businesses be it
cursor or cloud code or something if
they have internally a mental picture of
a user that's close enough it's a very
large prospective users uh that you can
actually go really far that way
>> the other thing that I've observed and
I'm curious if you guys see this in some
of our companies is just like the floor
is lava right the ground is changing in
terms of capability all the time and the
competition is also very fierce in the
categories that are already obviously
important and have multiple players so
leaders who are really effective in
companies companies a generation ago um
are not necessarily that effective when
recruited in to these companies as
they're scaling like because the pace of
the velocity of operation or the pace of
change. It's interesting to see you say
like I'm looking at what I was doing in
like today and in 2022 and saying like
is that still right versus if you know
if you're an engineering leader or a go
to market leader and you've like built
your career being really great at how
that's done that may not be applicable
anymore. I think it's a challenge for a
lot of people. I know many great leaders
in lots of different functions still
doing things the way they were in 2022.
And I think it it it's just got to
change when when new technology comes. I
mean, you know, once upon a time there
was no such thing as web search today.
Who would you hire anyone for any road
that doesn't know how to search the web,
right? And I think we're well past the
point that for a lot of job roles, if
you can't use OM in an effective way,
you're just much less effective than
someone that can. And it turns out um
everyone in my team AI fund knows how to
code. Everyone is a good account. And I
see for a lot of my team members, you
know, when my I don't know um uh
assistant general counsel or my CFO or
my front desk operator when they learn
how to code, they're not software
engineers, but they do their job
function better because by learning the
language of computers, they can now tell
a computer more precisely what they want
to do for them and the computer do it
for them and this makes them more
effective at job their job function. I
think the rapid pace of change is uh
disconcerting to a lot of people. uh but
I guess
>> I don't know I I feel like when the
world is moving at this pace we just
have to change at the world at the pace
in the world that uh to your point show
up in um hires particularly around
product so uh or product and design so
one sort of later stage AI company I'm
involved with they were doing a search
for somebody to run product and somebody
to run design and in both cases they
selected for people who really
understood how to use some of the vibe
coding AI assisted coding tools
>> because there they they said your point
it's like you can prototype something so
rapidly and if you can't even just mock
it up really quickly to show what it
could look like or feel like or do in a
very simple way, you're wasting an
enormous amount of time talking and
writing up the product requirements
document and everything else. And so I
do think there's a shift in terms of how
do you even think about
>> what processes do you use to develop a
product or even pitch it right like what
should you show up with to a meeting
when you're talking about a product
completely yeah know you should you
should have a prototype in some cases
actually just give you an example recent
interviewing engineers for a row and
hire there interview someone with about
10 years of experience you know full
stack very good resume also interviewed
a fresh college grad um but the
difference was the person with 10 years
of experience had not used AI too as
much at fresh college grad had and my
assessment was the fresh college grad
that new AI would be much more
productive and I decide to hire them
instead. Turn out a great decision. Now
the flip side of this is the best
engineers I work with today are not
fresh college grads. They're people with
you know 10 15 or more years of
experience but they're also really on
top of AI tools and that those engineers
are just completely a cost of their own.
So I feel like I I actually think
software engineering is a harbinger of
what will happen in other disciplines
because the tools are most advanced in
software engineering.
>> It's interesting one company that I
guess both of us are involved with is
called Harvey and I led their series B
and when I did that um I called a bunch
of their customers and the thing that
was most interesting to me about some of
those customer calls was because legal
is notorious as being a tough profession
for adopting new technology right there
aren't a dozen great legal software
companies. those customers that I called
which were big law firms or people who
were you know quite far along in terms
of adopting Harvey they all thought this
was a future they all thought that AI
was really going to matter for their
vertical and the main thing they would
raises questions like in a world where
this is ubiquitous suddenly instead of
hiring 100 associates I only hire 10 and
how do I think about future partners and
who to promote if I don't have a big
pool and so I thought that mindset shift
was really interesting and to your point
I feel like it's percolating into all
these markets or industries and it's
sort of slowly happening ing but as
industry by industry people are starting
to rethink aspects of their business in
really interesting ways and it'll take a
decade two decades for this
transformation to happen but as it's
compelling to kind of see how people
like the earliest adopting verticals and
something that the people were thinking
deepest about it should be really
interesting I I think um yeah I feel
about legal startup kos is AI the AI
fund help build is doing very well as
well um I think I think the n the nature
of work in the future would be very
interesting so I feel like a lot of
teams um wound up you know outsourcing a
lot of work, right? Partly because of uh
uh costs. Um but with AI and AI
assistance, part of me wonders is a
really small, really skilled team um
with lots of AI tools, is that going to
outperform a much larger, you know, and
maybe lower cost team that that may or
may not be
>> and they have less coordination cost.
>> Yeah. So actually so some of the most
productive teams I'm on you know that
I'm a part of now is some of the
smallest teams than than very small
teams of really good engineers with lots
of AI enablement um and very low
coordination costs all together in
person. So see we'll see how the world
evolves. It's too early to make a call
but you can see where I'm maybe thinking
the world may or may not be headed.
>> I uh work with several teams now. um one
of which is called open evidence and has
like a pretty good penetration like 50%
of doctors in the US now where it's an
explicit objective in the company to try
to be as small as possible um as they
grow impact and you know we'll we'll see
where these companies land because you
know there's lots of functions that need
to grow in a company over time but that
certainly wasn't an objective for like
>> I've I've heard that objective a lot
I've actually I heard that objective a
lot in the 2010s and there's a bunch of
companies that I actually think
underhired pretty dramatically or stayed
profitable and would brag about being
profitable but gross wasn't as strong as
it could be. So I actually feel like
that's a trap part about this.
>> Yeah.
>> Um it's basically really it's it's
almost are you being um laxidasical or
too accepting of the progress that your
company's making because it's going just
fine. It could be going much better but
it's still going great on a relative
basis. And so you're like, "Oh, I'll
keep the team small. I'll be super lean.
I won't spend any money. Look at me how
profitable I am." And sometimes that's
amazing, right? Capital efficiency is
great but sometimes you're actually
missing the opportunity or not going as
fast as you can and um usually I think
what happens is in the early stage of a
startup life you're competing with other
startups and if you're way ahead it
feels great but eventually if there are
incumbents in your market they come in
and the faster you capture the market
and move up market the less time you
give them to sort of realize what's
going on and catch on and so often five
six seven years in the life of a startup
you're actually competing with
incumbents suddenly and they just kill
you with distribution or other things
and so I think people really miss the
mark and you could argue that was kind
of Slack versus teams that was Um, you
know, there's a few companies I won't
name, but I feel like they're so proud
of their profitability and they kind of
blew up, I guess, on the design side.
That was Sketch, right? Remember
Bohemian coding? Yeah.
>> You know, they they were based in the
Netherlands. They were super happy. They
were profitable. They were doing great.
And then the Figma wave kind of came.
>> Do you think your company stay this
small?
>> Do you think your teams stay this small?
>> Do you think my team stay this small?
What do you mean
>> in terms of just efficiency of like can
can you actually get to you know affect
millions and billions of people with 10
50 100 person teams?
>> I think teams can definitely be smaller
now than they used to be. But uh are we
overinvesting or underinvesting? And
then also I think to your point the the
the analysis of market dynamics right if
if it's a if there was like a win take
all market then the incentives just
>> got to go.
>> Yeah it's got move.
>> Minecraft I think when it sold to
Microsoft was how many people? like five
people or something and it sold for a
few billion dollars and it was massively
used. I think people forget all these
examples, right? It's just this, oh,
suddenly you can do things really lean.
You could always do something things
lean before. The real question is how
much leverage did you have in headcount?
How did you distribute?
>> What did you actually need to invest
money behind? And then I would almost
argue that one of the reasons small
teams are so efficient with AI is
because small teams are efficient in
general. You didn't hire 30 extra crusty
people who get in the way. And I think
often people do that. If you look at the
big tech companies for example right now
many not all of them but many of them
could probably shrink by 70% and be more
effective right and so I do think people
also forget the fact that a there's AI
efficiency b there's sort of um high
value capital being arbitrageed into
markets that normally wouldn't have them
legal is a good example great engineers
didn't want to work in legal now they do
because of things like Harvey
>> and then or healthare
>> or healthcare which again suddenly you
have these great people showing up but I
think also the other part of it is just
small teams tend to be more effective
>> and AI helps you argue other reasons to
keep teams highly small and performant
which I think is kind of under
discussed.
>> I feel like one of the this is another
reason why that AI instinct is so
important. I remember one week um had
two conversations with two different
team members. Uh one person came to me
to say hey Andrew I want to do this can
you give me some more head count to do
this? I said no. Later that week I think
independently someone else uh very
similar said hey Andrew can you give me
some budget to hire AI to do this? Said
yes. And then so that realization you
hire AI not you know a lot more humans
for this. You just got to have those
instincts.
>> Yeah, that's very interesting.
>> If you think of um what's happening
happening in software engineering as the
harbinger for like the next industry
transformations uh you spend a lot of
time investing at the application level
or like building things there. What what
do you think is next or what do you want
to be next?
>> I feel like there's a lot of uh at the
tooling level I feel like
>> I'd actually prefer a ranked list, you
know, for all investing in this stuff.
You know that's actually one that's
actually one thing I find really
interesting which is a web economist
doing a lot of studies on what are the
jobs you know at highest risk of AI
disruption. I think I think you're
skeptical. I actually look at them
sometimes for inspiration for where we
should find ideas to build projects. One
of my friends Eric Brennelson right his
his he he and his company work helix
which we're involved in is very
insightful in the nature. I like him.
>> Yeah. Good. Good. So so I I I find
talking to that sometimes useful.
Although actually one of the lessons
I've learned though is uh in view of top
down market analysis I think AI when a
target rich environment there's so many
ideas that no one's working on yet
because the tech is so new. So, one
thing I've learned is um AI fun, we have
an obsession with speed. All my life
I've always had an obsession with speed,
but now we have tools to go even faster
than we could. And so, one of the
lessons I've learned is um we really
like concrete ideas. So, if someone says
I did a market analysis, AI would
transform healthcare, that's true, but I
don't know what to do with that.
>> But if someone a subject matter expert
or an engineer comes and says, I have an
idea look at this part of healthcare
operations and drive all this. They go,
okay, great. That's a concrete idea. I
don't know if it's a good idea or a bad
idea but it's concrete at least we could
you know very efficiently figure out do
customers want this is this technically
feasible and get going. So I find that
AI fun um when we're trying to decide
what to build we spin a long list of
ideas to try to select you know small
number that we want to go forward on um
we we we don't like looking at ideas
that are not concrete. What do you think
investing firms or incubation studios
like yours will not do two years from
now like not do manually sorry
>> I think there's a lot could be automated
but the question is what are the tasks
we should be automating so for example
you know we don't make follow-on
decisions that often right because of
portfolio of some dozens of companies so
do we need to fully automate that
probably not because we're very look at
very hard to automate um I feel like
doing deep research on individual
companies is in competitive research
that seems right for automation. Uh so I
I might I don't know I I personally use
whether open D researcher and other D
researcher types of tools a lot uh to
just do at least the cursory marker
research things. Um LP reporting that is
a massive amount of paperwork that maybe
we could simplify.
>> Yeah, I'm taking the strategy of general
avoidance
>> besides you know basic compliance. you
know, one of my partners, uh, Bella, she
worked at Bridgewwater before, uh, where
they had like an internal effort to take
a chunk of capital and then try to
disrupt what Bridgewwater was doing with
AI. Um, and it's like, you know, macro
investing. It's a very different style
but I think uh but I think it probably
gives us some indications where the
human judgment piece of our business I
think is not obvious like does an
entrepreneur have the qualities that
we're looking for when you know your
resume on paper or you're a GitHub or
you know what minor work history you
have when you're a new grad. it's not
very indicative. And so people have
other ideas of doing this. Like I know
investors that are like, you know,
looking at recordings of meetings with
entrepreneurs and seeing if they can get
some signal out of like uh communication
style, for example. But I think that
part is very hard. I do think you can be
like programmatic about looking at
materials for example and like ranking
you know um quality of of teams overall.
There's actually one thing I feel like
um our AI models are getting really
intelligent but there's a set of places
where humans still have a huge advantage
of AI as often if the human has has
additional context that for whatever
reason the AI model can't get at and it
could be things like meeting the founder
and sussing out their you know just how
they are as a person and the leadership
qualities of communication or whatever
um and those things maybe reviewing
video maybe eventually we can get that
contest AI model but I find that all
these things like as humans yeah we do a
background reference check and someone
makes an off-hand comment that we catch
that that affects a decision then how
does a AI model get this information
especially when you know a friend will
talk to me but they don't really talk to
my AI model so I find that there are a
lot of these tasks where human have a
huge information advantage still because
they've not figured out the plumbing or
whatever is needed to get information to
the AI model
>> the other thing I think is like very
durable is um things that rely on like a
relationship advantage, right? If I'm
convincing somebody to work at one of my
companies and they worked at a previous
company and they trust me because of it
or whatever reason, like you know, all
the information in the world about why
this is a good opportunity isn't the
same thing as me being like, Sally, you
got to do this. It's going to work. It
remains to be seen whether or not
company building is actually that
correlated with investment returns, but
I do think that that side of it feels
harder to um fully automate.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. I
think I think like trust because um
people know and you know people do trust
you I trust you right because you come
say so many things it's very easy to
lose trust you know so that that makes
sense
>> actually one thing I'm curious to get
your take on is um you know we
increasingly see um highly technical
people try to be uh first-time founders
you know set up the processes to to to
set up first-time founders to learn all
the hard lessons and all the craziness
needed right to be a successful founder
I spent a lot of thinking through that
how to set up founders for success when
they have you know 80% of the skills
needed to be really great but there's
another just a little bit that we can
help them with
>> that's a very manual process um
>> I don't sweat it
>> you don't sweat it
>> I just view it as like a mix of pure
groups like can you surround people with
other people who are either similar or
one or two steps ahead of them on the
founding journey and then the second
thing is um complimentary hire I think
in general one of my big learnings is um
I feel like early in careers people try
compliment or try to build out the
skills that they don't have. In late in
careers, they lean into what they're
really good at and then they hire people
to do the rest. Is if the company's
working, I think you just hire people
like Bill Gates would notoriously talk
about his COO was always the person he'd
learned the most off of and then once he
had a certain level scale, he'd hire his
next COO.
>> I see. Yeah.
>> And so I must view it through that lens
for founders.
>> Yeah. Competition makes sense.
>> I think the best way to learn something
is to do it. And so that therefore just
go, you know, you'll screw it up. It's
fine. As long as it's not existential of
the business, who cares?
>> So I tend to be very laxidasical.
>> I probably think too many things are
existential for companies.
>> Yeah, it's something it's like do you
have customers and are you building
product?
>> The most Yeah. Are you building a
product that users love, right? And then
of course go to market is important and
all that is important, but you solve for
the product first then usually sometimes
you can figure out the rest too.
>> I agree with that most of the time, but
not always. Yeah, I think there's lots
of there's some counter examples, but
yeah, I generally agree with you.
>> No. Yeah. Some sometimes you can build a
sucky product and have a you know sales
channel you can force it through but I I
rather not that's not my default
it does work
>> there's a lot of really bad technology
that is big companies right now
>> okay if you have these uh you know
firsttime very technical founders with
gaps in their knowledge or skill set uh
being like the core profile of folks
you're backing again like Do you augment
them somehow? Like what's what helps
them when they begin?
>> I think a lot of things. It's actually
one thing I realized at you know at at
venture firms venture studios we do so
many reps that we just see a lot that
even repeat founders have only done like
twice in their life or even once or
twice in their life. So I find that um
when my firm sits alongside the founders
and shares our instincts on you know
when do we get customer p faster? Are
you really on top of the latest
technology trends? How do you just speed
things up? Or how do you fund raise? You
mo most people don't fund raise that
much in their lives, right? Most
founders just do it a handful of times.
That helps even very good founders with
things that because of what we do, we've
had more reps at. And then I think um
hiring others around them, peer group, I
know these are things that you guys do.
Uh I think there's a lot we could do. It
turns out even the best founders need
help. Um, so hopefully, you know, VCs,
venture studios who can provide that to
great founders.
>> A lot's wiser about this than I am. I I
mean, I I can't help myself, but like
want to specifically try to upskill
founders on a few things they have to be
able to do like recruiting, right? But I
uh I would agree that the higher
leverage path is absolutely like you can
put people around yourself to do this
and to learn it on the job. Last
question for you. What do you what do
you uh believe about broad impact of AI
over the next five years? You think most
people don't?
>> I think many people will be much more
empowered and much more capable in a few
years than they are today and the
capability of individuals is probably of
those that embrace AI will probably be
far greater than most people realize. um
two years ago who would have realized
that software engineers would be as
productive as they are today when they
embrace AI. I think in the future people
of all sorts of job functions and also
for personal task I think people and
braces will just be so much more
powerful and so much more capable than
they probably even imagined.
>> Yeah.
>> Thanks Andrew.
>> Thanks for thanks thanks sir.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.